
# Vintage Cash Cow Product Pricing Read-Me

The product is stored in 2 different folders.
The API folder contains the Product Pricing API and the test project.
The WebUI contains the Blazor application.

### Project Structure

    API/
      ProductPricingAPI/         - Main API project
      ProductPricingAPI.Tests/   - Unit tests
    WebUI/
      ProductPricingUI/          - Blazor application

### Technical Requirements      
It requires .NET 9 Framework.
I also added Radzen for UI components.
The API uses Scalar as API reference documentation - details on how to run that are further in this document.


## Download Project

Use your favourite Git tool to clone the repo: https://github.com/WilliamTwiname/vintage-assessment.git

**Be aware, this repo is public. As soon as you download the repo, if you want me to set it to private, I can do so. Just contact me at wtwiname@gmail.com. Since I didn't have any emails, I was unable to grant access directly and keep it private.**

## Run the Project

1. In PowerShell, cd into the `API\ProductPricingAPI` folder from where you cloned the repo.
2. In PowerShell, type the command `dotnet run --launch-profile https`.
(Alternatively you can open the solution in Visual Studio and click the green play 'https' button to run the application.)

By following these instructions, the commands should use the launchSettings.json file to run the API on `port 7217`.

3. In a new PowerShell window, cd into the `WebUI\ProductPricingUI` folder from where you cloned the repo.
4. In PowerShell, type the command `dotnet run --launch-profile https`.
(Alternatively you can open the solution in Visual Studio and click the green play 'https' button to run the application.)
5. Open Chrome (or a browser of your choice) and type in the address bar: https://localhost:7007/

By following these instructions, the commands should use the launchSettings.json file to run the Blazor application on `port 7007`.

6. In a new PowerShell window, cd into the `API/ProductPricingAPI.Tests`
7. In PowerShell, type the command `dotnet test`.
This will run the API unit tests.

## Port Numbers

The API uses `port 7217`.
The Blazor application uses `port 7007`.

## API Documentation

You can access the API documentation by opening Chrome and typing in the address bar: https://localhost:7217/scalar/v1

I used Scalar as it was recommended by Microsoft. The latest Swagger uses .NET 10 and therefore, since the requirement is to use .NET 9, I decided to use Scalar in this case.

Scalar allows you to see all 4 endpoints:
- Get all products: https://localhost:7217/scalar/v1#tag/productpricing/GET/api/products
- Get product history: https://localhost:7217/scalar/v1#tag/productpricing/GET/api/products/{id}
- Apply a discount to a product: https://localhost:7217/scalar/v1#tag/productpricing/POST/api/products/{id}/apply-discount
- Update the price of a product: https://localhost:7217/scalar/v1#tag/productpricing/PUT/api/products/{id}/update-price

It also lets you see all the DTOs under the models section.

## Notes
The main files in the API are:

`ProductPricingController` - which contains all the endpoints for the API.

`ProductDataRepository` - which contains the code to load the products into an in-memory collection and provides code to get the products as well as update the product prices.

`ProductRepository` - which contains the business logic of the API and allows us to map the models generated by the `ProductDataRepository`. This is important because we can keep the DTOs separate from the `ProductDataRepository`.

You'll see in the `ProductRepository` and `ProductDataRepository` I added comments to explain my reasoning behind certain coding decisions.

### Retrospective
Reading back, I think I may have missed or mistaken a requirement that I just want to outline so you are aware. Whilst working on the API, I added the discount endpoint and returned a response with the discount applied, however I didn't update the current price in the ConcurrentDictionary. Whilst working on it, I believed this was the correct approach. When working on the Blazor application, I applied the discounted price directly to the current price within the Blazor application code. This is useful since, if we update a price, the discount will not be applied to the updated price, as I believe this may cause confusion — and we handle the discount once the price has been updated in the Blazor application. On reflection, looking through the requirement again, it mentions: "Discounting logic: The discount is applied to the current price." If I mistook the requirement, I apologise. In real life I would clarify the requirements with the product manager or the person who wrote the requirements before pushing the code for a code review. I wrote this in the hope, it won't jeopardise my chances. 

### Future Considerations
Since the product catalogue could be quite large, fetching the products could be time consuming. In this scenario it is not a problem, but if we are constantly reading from the database, this can put a burden on the database and performance. In future we could consider caching the result and only fetching the data when changes are made. We could use `IMemoryCache` to achieve this.
